# CS340-Client-Server-Development

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I always try to use the simplest, most effective solution to whatever I am trying to code, with optimization being a major priority. In additon, I always ensure that a good consistent use of whitespace is maintained for legibility as well as header comments and in-line comments where applicable to help simplify the reading of the code. Keeping things modular across multiple files helps to isolate problems and ensure effectiveness. For example, my original "Read" method resulted in issues later in development which made tracing the problem far easier and I was able to simply rewrite the method to alleviate issues. This module could be used easily in the future to interface with other mongo databases with only minor alterations, speeding up efficiency with future projects.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I start by analyzing the requests/problems in their entirety and clarifying whatever could be unclear with subsequent questions. Once the problem/request is clearly understood, it simply becomes a matter of finding the simplest and most optimized solution that will fulfill these needs. Sometimes research within the programming language being used will easily answer this, followed by trial and error. As a final note, if a struggle is reached, simply researching possible solutions can often times result in finding the answer which can lead to afurthered understanding for future use. This approach has been tried and true for me thus far, and hasn't really changed from past courses. It has only led to more knowledge and less trial and error. I did learn a lot of coding knowledge and functions within MongoDB which could absolutely be used in future projects.

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists design, develop, and analyze both hardware and software used to solve problems in a large variety of contexts. It matters because most of modern humanity uses computers and the internet as well as a variety of machines and software on a daily basis. Computer science as quite literally reshaped much of modern society and the infrastructure that runs businesses, security, and the economy altogether. As for Grazioso Salvare, my work will help them to instantly search large amounts of data to find specific animals that meet the desirable qualities for various rescue training purposes, allowing them to pinpoint their locations in seconds. This would cut out large amounts of manual leg-work or phone calls to find the animals they need, directing them to exactly where they need to go right away.
